likely to get access to the courses that
will get them into college and good jobs
we have a caste system today in public
education it is designed to produce the
results we get let me tell you how big
the achievement gap is by seventh grade
in California Latino and
african-american seventh graders are
reading and doing that at about the
level of white third graders the gap is
already four years worth of learning as
students leave elementary school and get
into middle school by high school it
explodes nationwide those that are left
in the 12th grade read and do math at
about the level of white seventh graders
across the country when we say the
achievement gap dooms young people
hobbled by the gap to the margins of the
American mainstream they will not be
able to get good jobs you cannot leave
high schools as an eighteen-year-old
reading and doing math as a middle
schooler you will not be able to even go
to the community college and get college
credit bearing coursework we have this
fiction that our kids can go to
Community College and go there even
without a high school diploma until they
have to go take the basic skills test
and the placement tests and then they're
channeled into remedial classes classes
were in Community College and even in
four-year colleges they're actually
doing high school over again they're not
earning college credit for it you know
what they're getting a whole lot of debt
and so what we're seeing is patterns of
black and brown young people that do get
access to college that never get out
with a degree or credential instead they
get out with some credits and a whole
lot of student loan debt that you can't
even get rid of in bankruptcy I'm the
first of my family to attend a college
or university obviously first to
graduate and I can remember my counselor
and I attended a low socio-economic
school predominantly minority and I can
remember my counsel saying well your
parents did not attend college so
therefore you're probably not going to
attend college clearly wrong mindset we
never want to have a system nor will we
as long as I'm state superintendent that
does what we